--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
            GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
            OFFICE OF THE PRESS REGISTRAR GENERAL OF INDIA 
            (MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING) 
           9th Floor, Soochna Bhawan, CGO Complex, 
            Lodhi Road, New Delhi -110003 
 
Guidelines for Admissibility of Titles for Registration of 
Periodicals 
In exercise of powers conferred under Section 5(3)(C) read with Section 2(g) of the 
Press and Registration of Periodicals Act 2023, the Press Registrar General of India (PRGI) 
hereby issues the following Guidelines for Admissibility and Availability of Titles for 
Registration of Periodicals published in India containing public news or comments on public 
news.  
These Guidelines are implemented with effect from 01.07.2025. This supersedes the 
earlier guidelines issued from time to time. The applicants are advised to refer to the 
complete list of already registered titles accessible on PRGI’s website (prig.gov.in) before 
proposing new titles as part of their applications. In addition, the applicants may read and 
adhere to the following guidelines while applying for registration of their periodical through 
Press Sewa Portal. 
1. The proposed titles should preferably contain more than one word formed by    
combining distinct and meaningful terms. Generic, or root word titles shall not be 
registered. Generic or Root words are those words which cannot be broken down 
further. Here are some example: Manthan, Darpan, Inspire, Success, Khulasa, 
Rahasya, Katha, Herald, Malar, Mukhi, Nukkad, etc.). 
2. The proposed titles must be unique and shall not be phonetically or visually similar to 
any existing registered title whether in the same language across India or any other 
language within the same State.  

--- PAGE 2 ---
3. Titles should be meaningful and clear. Titles with negative connotations with religious 
sentiments, obscene, absurd or offensive to public sentiments or those that could be 
misused with words like “crime”, “corruption” etc. will not be registered. 
4. Abbreviations, acronyms or numerals will be considered only if they are meaningfully 
and appropriately attached with other words. 
5. Titles that combine existing registered titles whether in full, in part or by rearranging 
words or inserting non-distinctive terms that do not create a significantly different title 
will not be registered.  
6. Titles denoting the name of an individual should not be the names of the owner or 
publisher of the proposed periodical. (Example: "Rajan Times", "Deepak Samachar", 
"Jitendra News", etc.).  
7. Titles containing non-text characters, or any form of signs, symbols including 
mathematical symbols(like "+", "*", etc.), pictographs, photographs, hallmarks, logos, 
monograms, phonograms, emojis, etc. 
8. 7  Titles formed by insignificantly prefixing or suffixing generic or repetitive terms to 
an existing title- such as addition names of cities or states, periodicity or language, or 
addition of articles (A, An, The) prepositions or adjectives to an already existing title 
will not be approved. (Examples: The Times, Daily, Dainik, Weekly, V/Wartha, Aaj, 
Today, Express, News, Khabar, Samachar, Bulletin, Diary, India, National, Rashtriya, 
"Saptahik Weekly", "Sandhya Evening", or "Daily Dainik News" etc.). 
9. The proposed title shall not be registered if it is found to be in violation of any judicial 
pronouncement including matters involving copyright, trademark infringement, 
contempt of court and defamation. 
10. Titles containing words which can be construed as affecting the sovereignty and 
integrity of India, Security of the State, International Relations, Public order, Morality 
and public decency, incite unrest or disorder etc.will not be registered. 
11. Titles similar to any national symbol, national motto, or suggesting misleading 
association with Central Government/State Governments/Local bodies/Constitutional 
bodies/Statutory bodies or are violative of "The Emblems and Names (Prevention of 
Improper Use) Act, 1950” or any other law in force will not be registered. 
12. Titles 
containing 
names 
of 
Government 
Organizations/ 
Departments, 
Regulatory/Enforcement Agencies (such as "Police", "Bureau", "Investigation 
Department", "Vigilance", "CID", "CBI", Commission, Defence Establishment, etc.), 
Foreign Governments, International Organizations (e.g., UN, WHO, ILO) in any 

--- PAGE 3 ---
language, or words like Sarkar, Government, Parliament etc. or title containing the 
names of public welfare schemes of Central/State Governments or its organizations or 
local bodies which suggest a misleading association with them shall not be registered.  
13.  Titles suggesting any association with a foreign country, city, or place which does not 
correspond to the State or place of publication of the periodical shall not be registered 
(Example: “South Africa Times", "Canada Times", or "New York Mirror").  
14. Titles with the names of national leaders or those resembling the names of prominent 
national leaders, Heads of Government, and functionaries of Central and State 
governments will not be registered. However, names of recognized national and state 
political parties will be considered if applied by the concerned organization. 
15. Title registered as a Satellite TV Channel/FM Radio/Community Radio Station with 
the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting shall not be registered unless the 
application is made by their owner or by their representative on his behalf (Example: 
Titles such as "News Nation", "News Time", "Aajtak News", "Akaashvani Times", 
"Dabang News", etc. will not be registered to applicants other than owners of such 
channels). 
16. Titles resembling the titles of well-known periodicals if applied by anyone other than 
the existing owner of the well-known title shall not be registered. This is to avoid any 
false/misleading impression of association with the well-known periodical. 
17. Titles using words like Ad or Advertisement, Classifieds, Tender, Calendar, Panchang, 
Matrimonial, Yellow pages (generally prefixed with white, pink, etc.), pamphlet, 
brochure, directory, or any such publication which cannot be treated as a periodical 
shall not be registered. 
18.  Registration of new editions and transfer of ownership of an existing periodical with 
a title falling in the categories specified under points 3 and 9 to 13 of these guidelines 
will not be considered. 
 
***** 
 
